I. Project Overview 
Students are required to design and implement a database system based on an approved case 
study. The project must demonstrate proper database design, normalization, and correct SQL 
implementation within a working application. 
 
II. Minimum Technical Requirement 
The project must use a relational database management system (RDBMS), with Microsoft SQL 
Server (MSSQL Server) as the minimum requirement. The application must successfully connect and 
operate with the chosen DBMS, demonstrating proper database configuration and reliable connectivity 
throughout the system. 
 
III. Database Design Requirements 
A. Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD)  
The ERD must clearly show: 
 All entities (tables) 
 Attributes (columns) 
 Primary Keys (PK) 
 Foreign Keys (FK) 
 Relationships (1:1, 1:M, M:N) 
 Proper cardinality 
The database must be normalized up to Third Normal Form (3NF). 
 
B. Data Dictionary 
A complete Data Dictionary must be provided for all tables. 
Each table must include: 
 Table Name 
 Column Name 
 Data Type 
 Length/Size 
 Constraints (PK, FK, NOT NULL, UNIQUE, DEFAULT, etc.) 
 Description of the field 
The Data Dictionary must clearly explain the purpose of each column. 
 
C. Core Data Requirement 
Each core table in the database must contain at least 20 records to effectively 
demonstrate the main processes of the application. The data should be meaningful and consistent 
with the system’s business logic, ensuring that all SQL operations and transactions can be properly 
tested and validated within the application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
IV. Project Application Requirements 
The system must demonstrate actual SQL usage using MSSQL Server. 
 
A. Database Connection 
The application must include a working connection to MSSQL Server. 
The connection setup must include: 
 Server Name 
 Database Name 
 Authentication Type (Windows or SQL Authentication) 
 Username (if applicable) 
 Password (may be hidden in documentation) 
 
B. Required SQL Operations 
The system must properly implement the following operations: 
1. SELECT (Data Retrieval) 
 Do not use SELECT * 
 Specify required columns only 
 Use WHERE conditions properly 
 Use JOIN when retrieving related data 
2. INSERT (Data Insertion) 
 Always specify column names 
 Insert validated data 
3. UPDATE (Data Modification) 
 Always include a WHERE condition 
 Prevent unintentional updates of all records 
4. DELETE (Data Removal) 
 Always include a WHERE condition 
 Ensure controlled deletion of records 
 
C. SQL Transactions 
The system must implement transactions when performing related operations. 
The following must be demonstrated: 
 
BEGIN TRANSACTION 
COMMIT 
ROLLBACK 
 
Transactions must be used to maintain data integrity. If an error occurs during a multi-step process, 
the system must execute a ROLLBACK. 
 
V. General Guidelines 
 Use proper naming conventions for tables and columns. 
 Use appropriate data types. 
 Enforce referential integrity using foreign key constraints. 
 Apply normalization principles to prevent redundancy and data anomalies. 
 Follow SQL best practices for readability and security. 
 
    
